<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ignoring-rules">
    <title>Ignoring Validator Rules</title>
    <body>
        <section id="removing-a-rule-globally">
            <title outputclass="h4 text-secondary">Removing a rule globally</title>
            <p>
               Rules can be made inactive by altering the severity (see above). Alternatively a
               rule can be commented out in the XSL configuration file.
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="ignoring-a-rule-throughout-a-document">
            <title outputclass="h4 text-secondary">Ignoring a rule throughout a document</title>
            <p>
               Individual rules can be ignored by passing the <codeph>args.validate.ignore.rules</codeph>
               parameter to the command line. The value of the parameter should be a
               comma-delimited list of each <codeph>rule-id</codeph> to ignore.
            </p>
            <p>
               For example to ignore the <codeph>latin-abbreviation</codeph> validation rule
               within a document you would run:
            </p>
            <codeblock scale="80" outputclass="language-bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> -f text-rules-echo <parmname>--input</parmname> <filepath>document.ditamap</filepath> \
    <parmname>--args.validate.ignore.rules</parmname>=latin-abbreviation</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="ignoring-a-specific-instance-of-a-rule">
            <title outputclass="h4 text-secondary">Ignoring a specific instance of a rule</title>
            <p>
               Specific instances of a rule can be ignored by adding a comment within the <codeph>*.dita</codeph>
               file. The comment should start with <codeph>ignore-rule</codeph> and needs to
               be added at the location where the error is flagged.
            </p>
            <codeblock scale="80" outputclass="language-xml"><coderef href="./src/ignore-rule.xml"/></codeblock>
        </section>
        <section id="ignoring-all-warningserrors-within-a-block-of-text">
            <title outputclass="h4 text-secondary">Ignoring all warnings/errors within a block of text</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>
                       A block of DITA can be excluded from firing all rules at <b>WARNING</b> level by
                       adding the comment <codeph>ignore-all-warnings</codeph> to the block.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>
                       A block of DITA can be excluded from firing all rules at <b>ERROR</b> level by
                       adding the comment <codeph>ignore-all-errors</codeph> to the block.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>
                       Rules set at <b>FATAL</b> level cannot be ignored.
                    </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>