<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="usage">
  <title>Usage</title>
  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>
        To run, use any <option>html</option> transform and add the 
        <parmname>--args.favicon</parmname> , <parmname>--args.faviconpath</parmname>
         and <parmname>args.faviconroot</parmname> parameters.
    </shortdesc>
    <p>
        The new <parmname>args.favicon.*</parmname> parameters follow the existing syntax 
        used by DITA-OT for CSS files.
    </p>
  </abstract>
  <body>
      <codeblock scale="80" outputclass="language-bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--format</parmname> <option>[html5|xhtml]</option> \
  <parmname>--input</parmname> document.ditamap \
  <parmname>--args.faviconpath</parmname>=<filepath>DESTINATION_PATH_OF_FAVICON</filepath>  \
  <parmname>--args.faviconroot</parmname>=<filepath>SOURCE_PATH_OF_FAVICON</filepath></codeblock>
      <p>
         To refer to an exisiting file hosted on a server, use a URL as the 
         <parmname>--args.faviconpath</parmname> parameter
      </p>
      <codeblock scale="80" outputclass="language-bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--format</parmname> <option>[html5|xhtml]</option> \
  <parmname>--input</parmname> document.ditamap \
  <parmname>--args.faviconpath</parmname>=<filepath>https://example.com/static/assets</filepath></codeblock> 
    <section id="parameter-reference">
      <title outputclass="h3 mt-3">Parameter Reference</title>
      <indexterm><parmname>args.favicon</parmname></indexterm>
      <indexterm><parmname>args.faviconpath</parmname></indexterm>
      <indexterm><parmname>args.faviconroot</parmname></indexterm>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <parmname>args.favicon</parmname> - Specifies the name of the favicon file. 
          The value of this parameter should be only the file name. The absolute path
          to the parent directory should be specified with <parmname>args.faviconroot</parmname>.
          Defaults to <xref href="https://github.com/jason-fox/fox.jason.favicon/blob/master/includes/favicon.svg" scope="external"><codeph>favicon.svg</codeph></xref> - the name of
          the default image found within the plugin itself.
        </li>
        <li>
           <parmname>args.faviconpath</parmname> - Specifies the destination directory to which the 
           favicon file is copied (relative to the output directory). Corresponds to the XSLT parameter 
           <codeph>FAVICONPATH</codeph>. DITA-OT will copy the file to this location.

           <note type="tip">If <parmname>args.faviconpath</parmname> is not set, the favicon file will be
            copied to the root level of the output folder. To move the <parmname>favicon</parmname> file 
            to an output subfolder named <filepath>/static/assets</filepath>, set <parmname>
            args.faviconpath</parmname> to <filepath>/static/assets</filepath>.</note>
        </li>
        <li>
           <parmname>args.faviconroot</parmname> - specifies the source directory that contains the favicon file. DITA-OT will copy the file from this location. Defaults to the image found within the plugin itself.
           <note type="important"> Enter the absolute path to the parent directory of the favicon file specified with <parmname>args.favicon</parmname>.</note>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>